empathise/README.md, before:

# Empathise 🥺

User-focused thinking of problem spaces and refinement of a problem statement.

## Brainstorming Problem Areas 🧠

Brainstorm problem areas related to energy, energy harvesting, and energy loss in order to develop a problem statement.

### Energy Types

Brainstormed energy types to set the parameters of the project brief.

<img src="brainstorm-energy-types.jpeg" alt="brainstorm-energy-types" width="50%">

### Energy Sources

Brainstormed general sources of energy.

<img src="brainstorm-general-energy-sources.jpeg" alt="brainstorm-general-energy-sources" width="50%">

This then expanded to include specific sources of energy focused around energy loss.

<img src="brainstorm-specific-energy-sources.jpeg" alt="brainstorm-specific-energy-sources" width="50%">

## Researching Problem Areas 🧩

Further research into problem areas to:
- Identify the stakeholders within these problem spaces.
- The marketability of the problem.
- The innovativeness of the problem.
- Presence of data and previous research.

> This work was done within a [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lhBVNqQttMCyS-LZkeU3rhdo17ehIDjxk5FEoXpYh4c/edit?usp=sharing).

## Evaluating Problem Areas 🤔

Evaluate problem areas to narrow down the problem areas.

> This work was done within a [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15Y5BLjWYeOzdiXMWd3SZe7I68tTQgj5_khv4GgHinzo/edit?usp=sharing).

## Problem Statement ⁉️

## Creating Personas 👤

## User Requirements 🤝

Commit message:

Fill out the work package descriptions.

empathise/README.md, after:

# Empathise 🥺

User-focused thinking of problem spaces and refinement of a problem statement.

## Brainstorming Problem Areas 🧠

Brainstorm problem areas related to energy, energy harvesting, and energy loss in order to develop a problem statement.

### Energy Types

Brainstormed energy types to set the parameters of the project brief.

<img src="brainstorm-energy-types.jpeg" alt="brainstorm-energy-types" width="50%">

### Energy Sources

Brainstormed general sources of energy.

<img src="brainstorm-general-energy-sources.jpeg" alt="brainstorm-general-energy-sources" width="50%">

This then expanded to include specific sources of energy focused around energy loss.

<img src="brainstorm-specific-energy-sources.jpeg" alt="brainstorm-specific-energy-sources" width="50%">

## Researching Problem Areas 🧩

Further research into problem areas to:
- Identify the stakeholders within these problem spaces.
- The marketability of the problem.
- Presence of data and previous research.
- The innovativeness of the problem i.e. presencen existing solutions and their innovativeness.

> This work was done within a [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lhBVNqQttMCyS-LZkeU3rhdo17ehIDjxk5FEoXpYh4c/edit?usp=sharing).

## Evaluating Problem Areas 🤔

Evaluate problem areas to narrow down the problem areas.

This was a three step process:
1. Identify the selection criteria to measure the problem areas against.
1. Conducting a pair-wise comparison chart to weigh the selection criteria in terms of importance to us.
1. Filling a best-of-class chart to score the problem areas with the selection criteria weighting.

> This work was done within a [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15Y5BLjWYeOzdiXMWd3SZe7I68tTQgj5_khv4GgHinzo/edit?usp=sharing).

## Problem Statement ⁉️



## Creating Personas 👤

The personalities that represent who the users are to the problem.

> This work was done within a [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QcTmauxbnZnFPAq2-T5k6lEO8NxcR10Ln2A-Wx-NyZU/edit?usp=sharing).

## User Requirements 🤝

User requirements elaborate on what our personas want.

What do they want? Why do they want it?

> This work was done within a [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A06ONjj7tLm_xGvUQfQnWL-As_b0yvIB1bE-RqM8eos/edit?usp=sharing).
