prototype/README.md, before:

# Prototype 🧱

Building a proof-of-concept.

## Work Packages 💼

[TOC]

- System design.
- Cycle of analysis, CAD, simulation.
- Verify solution works (through analysis and simulation).
- Validate solution against requirements.

## Requirements Allocation 🔑

The requirements to consider for system design were:
- `FR(1.1.1.1)`: Withstand turbulent airflow where Reynolds number ranges from $30000 - 60000$.
- `FR(1.1.1.3)`: Able to operate in air flow between $1400 - 1600 \space L/s$.
- `FR(1.1.1.4)`: Able to operate in speeds between $3 - 5 \space m/s$.
- `FR(1.1.1.5)`: Harvest wind energy with minimal noise pollution.
- `FR(1.3.1)`: Can power electronics at an average power of $3 \space W$.
- `FR(3.1)`: Detect particulates in air.
- `FR(3.2)`: Communicate data.

A requirements allocation was performed to identify the top-level subsystems:

```mermaid
graph LR
FR1.1.1.1 --> Funnel
FR1.1.1.3 --> Funnel
FR1.1.1.3 --> Turbine
FR1.1.1.4 --> Turbine
FR1.1.1.5 --> Dampers
FR1.3.1 --> Generator
FR1.3.1 --> Battery
FR3.1 --> Sensors
FR3.1 --> Control
FR3.2 --> Control
```

## System Design 🚀

A top-down thinking approach.

```mermaid
graph LR
    
```

## Sensor Array Selection ⚡️

> Research on sensors in this [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1f3vsNErERXZ-9NdXlSl-dcCkEAP_58Zadz2kLJG4f4g/edit#gid=0).

## Battery Selection 🔋

Consider a gross perspective of possible devices and their power ratings:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Device</th>
        <th>Description</th>
        <th>Input Voltage (V)</th>
        <th>Input Current (mA)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://store.arduino.cc/products/arduino-nano">Arduino Nano</a></td>
        <td>Microcontroller.</td>
        <td>7 - 12</td>
        <td>20 - 200</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://docs.arduino.cc/hardware/uno-rev3">Arduino Uno</a></td>
        <td>Microcontroller.</td>
        <td>7 - 12</td>
        <td>50 - 200</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-4-model-b/specifications/">Raspberry Pi 4</a></td>
        <td>Microcontroller.</td>
        <td>4 - 6</td>
        <td>> 3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USB#Low-power_and_high-power_devices">High-Power USB 3.0</a></td>
        <td>To power sensor device.</td>
        <td>5</td>
        <td>900</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USB#Low-power_and_high-power_devices">USB-C</a></td>
        <td>To power sensor device.</td>
        <td>5</td>
        <td>1500</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://core-electronics.com.au/wifi-bee-esp8266.html">Wifi Bee ESP8266</a></td>
        <td>Wifi module.</td>
        <td>3.3</td>
        <td>240</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://core-electronics.com.au/raspberry-pi-pico-w-wireless-wifi.html">Raspberry Pi Pico W</a></td>
        <td>Wifi module.</td>
        <td>1.8 - 5.5</td>
        <td>90</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://core-electronics.com.au/tinypico-v2-usb-c.html">TinyPICO V2 USB-C</a></td>
        <td>Wifi module.</td>
        <td>1.8 - 5.5</td>
        <td>90</td>
    </tr>
</table>

> Note that a lot of electronic devices can be powered by USB-C.

Consider the battery-life formula:
$$
b = \frac{Q}{I}
$$

Where:
- $b \space (hr)$ is the battery life.
- $Q \space (Ahr)$ is the battery capacity.
- $I \space (A)$ is the current load.


Assume that a small microcontroller, wifi module, and three USB-C devices are powered by the battery, the peak current load would be:
$$
\begin{aligned}
I_{\text{peak}} = 200 + 200 + 1500 \times 3 = 4900 \space mA \approx 4.9 A
\end{aligned}
$$

For a desired battery life at the peak current load:
$$
b_{\text{peak}} = 1 \space hr
$$

> 1 hour was selected as the maximum time a routine inspection of air quality could be carried out for.

The desired battery capacity is therefore:
$$
\begin{aligned}
Q &= b_{\text{peak}} \times I_{\text{peak}} \\
&= 1 \times 4.9 \\
&= 4.9 \space Ahr
\end{aligned}
$$

The battery capacity is the standard capacity of most phone-charging powerbanks

In practice, the current load will not be peaked. The current load at rest would realistically be the current draw of the microcontroller:
$$
I_{\text{rest}} = 20 \space mA = 0.02 \space A
$$

> The current draw of a wifi module at rest is $20 \space \mu A$. The sensors may be turned off when not in use.

For a desired battery capacity of $4.9 \space Ahr$, this gives an average battery life of:
$$
b_{\text{rest}} = \frac{Q}{I_{\text{rest}}} = \frac{4.9}{0.02} = 24.5 \space hr
$$

Therefore, any rechargaeable battery that is capable of supplying $5 \space V$ and with a capacity of at least $4.9 \space Ahr$ is desired.

---

Consider the battery-capacity formula:
$$
E = V \times Q
$$

Where:
- $E \space (Whr)$ is the battery energy.
- $V \space (V)$ is the battery voltage.
- $Q \space (Ahr)$ is the battery capacity.

To satisfy the requirement of an average constant power of $3 \space W$. Assume that the battery has a power rating of:
$$
E = 3 \space Whr
$$

The standard input voltage for most sensor devices is $3 \space V$ whereas for microcontrollers at least $6 \space V$.

$$
\begin{aligned}
Q &= \frac{E}{V} = \frac{3}{6} = 0.5 \space Ah
\end{aligned}
$$

## Generator Selection 🚘

The considerations for selecting a generator are:
- Size.
- Mass.
- Charging rate.
- 

To charge the battery, an appropriate generator was selected


> System design calculations were made in this [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eosVVQOt2COTTdD-d0bvh6w1MXfZiy1iHKO29cC1Ua0/edit?usp=sharing).

## Turbine Size 💨

Consider the [extended Bernoulli equation](https://www.engineeringtoolbox.com/mechanical-energy-equation-d_614.html) for a turbine (in terms of energy per unit mass):
$$
E_{\text{pressure, in}} + E_{\text{velocity, in}} + E_{\text{elevation, in}} = E_{\text{pressure, out}} + E_{\text{velocity, out}} + E_{\text{elevation, elevation}} + E_{\text{shaft}} + E_{\text{loss}}
$$

Substituting the energies in terms of velocities and pressures gives:
$$
\frac{p_{\text{in}}}{\rho} + \frac{v_{\text{in}}^2}{2} + gh_{\text{in}} = \frac{p_{\text{out}}}{\rho} + \frac{v_{\text{out}}^2}{2} + gh_{\text{out}} + E_{\text{shaft}} + E_{\text{loss}}
$$

Where:
- $p \space (Pa)$ is the static pressure.
- $\rho \space (kg/m^3)$ is the fluid density.
- $v \space (m/s)$ is the flow velocity.
- $g \space (m/s^2)$ is acceleration of gravity.
- $h \space (m)$ is the elevation height.
- $E_{\text{shaft}} \space (J/kg)$ is the net shaft energy per unit mass for the turbine.
- $E_{\text{loss}} \space (J/kg)$ is the hydraulic loss through the turbine.

This above equation may not be very usable by us so we can multiply it by $\rho$ to get the equation in terms of energy per unit volume:
$$
p_{\text{in}} + \rho \frac{v_{\text{in}}^2}{2} + \gamma h_{\text{in}} = p_{\text{out}} + \rho \frac{v_{\text{out}}^2}{2} + \gamma h_{\text{out}} + \rho E_{\text{shaft}} + \rho E_{\text{loss}}
$$

The fluid density of air is:
$$
\rho = 1.225 \space kg/m^3
$$

The fluid specific weight of air is:
$$
\gamma = \rho \times g = 1.225 \times 9.81 = 12.01725 \space kg/m^3
$$

Consider the efficiency of the turbine:
$$
\eta = \frac{E_{\text{shaft}}}{E_{\text{shaft}} + E_{\text{loss}}}
$$

## Turbine Configuration ⚙️

Consider the expected air flow range which is:
$$
v = 3 - 4 \space m/s
$$

Consider the efficiency curves of the turbine configurations:

## Bearing Selection 🛞

Consider the expected air flow range which is:
$$
v = 3 - 4 \space m/s
$$

The expected rotational speed of the turbine is thus:

## 

## Verification

## Validation

Commit message:

Add note on what happens if battery with greater than 5 V is selected.

prototype/README.md, after:

# Prototype 🧱

Building a proof-of-concept.

## Work Packages 💼

[TOC]

- System design.
- Cycle of analysis, CAD, simulation.
- Verify solution works (through analysis and simulation).
- Validate solution against requirements.

## Requirements Allocation 🔑

The requirements to consider for system design were:
- `FR(1.1.1.1)`: Withstand turbulent airflow where Reynolds number ranges from $30000 - 60000$.
- `FR(1.1.1.3)`: Able to operate in air flow between $1400 - 1600 \space L/s$.
- `FR(1.1.1.4)`: Able to operate in speeds between $3 - 5 \space m/s$.
- `FR(1.1.1.5)`: Harvest wind energy with minimal noise pollution.
- `FR(1.3.1)`: Can power electronics at an average power of $3 \space W$.
- `FR(3.1)`: Detect particulates in air.
- `FR(3.2)`: Communicate data.

A requirements allocation was performed to identify the top-level subsystems:

```mermaid
graph LR
FR1.1.1.1 --> Funnel
FR1.1.1.3 --> Funnel
FR1.1.1.3 --> Turbine
FR1.1.1.4 --> Turbine
FR1.1.1.5 --> Dampers
FR1.3.1 --> Generator
FR1.3.1 --> Battery
FR3.1 --> Sensors
FR3.1 --> Control
FR3.2 --> Control
```

## System Design 🚀

A top-down thinking approach.

```mermaid
graph LR
    
```

## Sensor Array Selection ⚡️

> Research on sensors in this [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1f3vsNErERXZ-9NdXlSl-dcCkEAP_58Zadz2kLJG4f4g/edit#gid=0).

## Battery Selection 🔋

Consider a gross perspective of possible devices and their power ratings:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Device</th>
        <th>Description</th>
        <th>Input Voltage (V)</th>
        <th>Input Current (mA)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://store.arduino.cc/products/arduino-nano">Arduino Nano</a></td>
        <td>Microcontroller.</td>
        <td>7 - 12</td>
        <td>20 - 200</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://docs.arduino.cc/hardware/uno-rev3">Arduino Uno</a></td>
        <td>Microcontroller.</td>
        <td>7 - 12</td>
        <td>50 - 200</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-4-model-b/specifications/">Raspberry Pi 4</a></td>
        <td>Microcontroller.</td>
        <td>4 - 6</td>
        <td>> 3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USB#Low-power_and_high-power_devices">High-Power USB 3.0</a></td>
        <td>To power sensor device.</td>
        <td>5</td>
        <td>900</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USB#Low-power_and_high-power_devices">USB-C</a></td>
        <td>To power sensor device.</td>
        <td>5</td>
        <td>1500</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://core-electronics.com.au/wifi-bee-esp8266.html">Wifi Bee ESP8266</a></td>
        <td>Wifi module.</td>
        <td>3.3</td>
        <td>240</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://core-electronics.com.au/raspberry-pi-pico-w-wireless-wifi.html">Raspberry Pi Pico W</a></td>
        <td>Wifi module.</td>
        <td>1.8 - 5.5</td>
        <td>90</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://core-electronics.com.au/tinypico-v2-usb-c.html">TinyPICO V2 USB-C</a></td>
        <td>Wifi module.</td>
        <td>1.8 - 5.5</td>
        <td>90</td>
    </tr>
</table>

> Note that a lot of electronic devices can be powered by USB-C.

Consider the battery-life formula:
$$
b = \frac{Q}{I}
$$

Where:
- $b \space (hr)$ is the battery life.
- $Q \space (Ahr)$ is the battery capacity.
- $I \space (A)$ is the current load.


Assume that a small microcontroller, wifi module, and three USB-C devices are powered by the battery, the peak current load would be:
$$
\begin{aligned}
I_{\text{peak}} = 200 + 200 + 1500 \times 3 = 4900 \space mA \approx 4.9 A
\end{aligned}
$$

For a desired battery life at the peak current load:
$$
b_{\text{peak}} = 1 \space hr
$$

> 1 hour was selected as the maximum time a routine inspection of air quality could be carried out for.

The desired battery capacity is therefore:
$$
\begin{aligned}
Q &= b_{\text{peak}} \times I_{\text{peak}} \\
&= 1 \times 4.9 \\
&= 4.9 \space Ahr
\end{aligned}
$$

The battery capacity is the standard capacity of most phone-charging powerbanks

In practice, the current load will not be peaked. The current load at rest would realistically be the current draw of the microcontroller:
$$
I_{\text{rest}} = 20 \space mA = 0.02 \space A
$$

> The current draw of a wifi module at rest is $20 \space \mu A$. The sensors may be turned off when not in use.

For a desired battery capacity of $4.9 \space Ahr$, this gives an average battery life of:
$$
b_{\text{rest}} = \frac{Q}{I_{\text{rest}}} = \frac{4.9}{0.02} = 24.5 \space hr
$$

Therefore, any rechargaeable battery that is capable of supplying at least $5 \space V$ and with a capacity of at least $4.9 \space Ahr$ is desired.

> If a battery with greater than $5 \space V$ is selected, then a voltage regulator can be used to step-down the voltage.

---

Consider the battery-capacity formula:
$$
E = V \times Q
$$

Where:
- $E \space (Whr)$ is the battery energy.
- $V \space (V)$ is the battery voltage.
- $Q \space (Ahr)$ is the battery capacity.

To satisfy the requirement of an average constant power of $3 \space W$. Assume that the battery has a power rating of:
$$
E = 3 \space Whr
$$

The standard input voltage for most sensor devices is $3 \space V$ whereas for microcontrollers at least $6 \space V$.

$$
\begin{aligned}
Q &= \frac{E}{V} = \frac{3}{6} = 0.5 \space Ah
\end{aligned}
$$

## Generator Selection 🚘

The considerations for selecting a generator are:
- Size.
- Mass.
- Charging rate.
- 

To charge the battery, an appropriate generator was selected


> System design calculations were made in this [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eosVVQOt2COTTdD-d0bvh6w1MXfZiy1iHKO29cC1Ua0/edit?usp=sharing).

## Turbine Size 💨

Consider the [extended Bernoulli equation](https://www.engineeringtoolbox.com/mechanical-energy-equation-d_614.html) for a turbine (in terms of energy per unit mass):
$$
E_{\text{pressure, in}} + E_{\text{velocity, in}} + E_{\text{elevation, in}} = E_{\text{pressure, out}} + E_{\text{velocity, out}} + E_{\text{elevation, elevation}} + E_{\text{shaft}} + E_{\text{loss}}
$$

Substituting the energies in terms of velocities and pressures gives:
$$
\frac{p_{\text{in}}}{\rho} + \frac{v_{\text{in}}^2}{2} + gh_{\text{in}} = \frac{p_{\text{out}}}{\rho} + \frac{v_{\text{out}}^2}{2} + gh_{\text{out}} + E_{\text{shaft}} + E_{\text{loss}}
$$

Where:
- $p \space (Pa)$ is the static pressure.
- $\rho \space (kg/m^3)$ is the fluid density.
- $v \space (m/s)$ is the flow velocity.
- $g \space (m/s^2)$ is acceleration of gravity.
- $h \space (m)$ is the elevation height.
- $E_{\text{shaft}} \space (J/kg)$ is the net shaft energy per unit mass for the turbine.
- $E_{\text{loss}} \space (J/kg)$ is the hydraulic loss through the turbine.

This above equation may not be very usable by us so we can multiply it by $\rho$ to get the equation in terms of energy per unit volume:
$$
p_{\text{in}} + \rho \frac{v_{\text{in}}^2}{2} + \gamma h_{\text{in}} = p_{\text{out}} + \rho \frac{v_{\text{out}}^2}{2} + \gamma h_{\text{out}} + \rho E_{\text{shaft}} + \rho E_{\text{loss}}
$$

The fluid density of air is:
$$
\rho = 1.225 \space kg/m^3
$$

The fluid specific weight of air is:
$$
\gamma = \rho \times g = 1.225 \times 9.81 = 12.01725 \space kg/m^3
$$

Consider the efficiency of the turbine:
$$
\eta = \frac{E_{\text{shaft}}}{E_{\text{shaft}} + E_{\text{loss}}}
$$

## Turbine Configuration ⚙️

Consider the expected air flow range which is:
$$
v = 3 - 4 \space m/s
$$

Consider the efficiency curves of the turbine configurations:

## Bearing Selection 🛞

Consider the expected air flow range which is:
$$
v = 3 - 4 \space m/s
$$

The expected rotational speed of the turbine is thus:

## 

## Verification

## Validation
